[Blog] You want better OpenSearch documentation? (#2911)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2024-06-03-so-you-want-better-opensearch-documentation.markdown

---
layout: post
 title: So you want better OpenSearch Documentation?
 authors:
  - epugh
  - chull
  - hdhalter
 date: 2024-06-03
 categories:
  - events
 meta_keywords: <provided by marketing>
 meta_description: <provided by marketing>
---

> [Charlie Hull](https://opensourceconnections.com/team/charlie-hull/) and I, [Eric Pugh](https://opensourceconnections.com/team/eric-pugh/), OpenSource Connections, had the opportunity during the “Unconference” portion at [_OpenSearchCon EU_](https://opensearch.org/events/opensearchcon/2024/europe/index.html) to talk about the current state of the OpenSearch documentation and get some feedback from the community. I chose this topic based on conversations I had with Heather Halter, OpenSearch Documentation Manager, last fall at OpenSearchCon Seattle.

Author: @epugh - any preference? I will change to"...from [OpenSource Connections](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&opi=89978449&url=https://opensourceconnections.com/&ved=2ahUKEwiqxrXG37WGAxUtM1kFHY5XDKgQFnoECAcQAQ&usg=AOvVaw0jRbdTI-7Nyxctwov1hOEu)." - with the link to your web page - unless you prefer something else.

> [Charlie Hull](https://opensourceconnections.com/team/charlie-hull/) and I, [Eric Pugh](https://opensourceconnections.com/team/eric-pugh/), OpenSource Connections, had the opportunity during the “Unconference” portion at [_OpenSearchCon EU_](https://opensearch.org/events/opensearchcon/2024/europe/index.html) to talk about the current state of the OpenSearch documentation and get some feedback from the community. I chose this topic based on conversations I had with Heather Halter, OpenSearch Documentation Manager, last fall at OpenSearchCon Seattle.

Reviewer: "from" works great!

![lightning talk](../assets/media/blog-images/2024-06-03-improvedocs/2024-06-03-improvedocs.jpg)(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eRLmIzevC-4)

> We started with the slightly tongue-in-cheek statement that the way you search Reddit is to go to Google and search “_How do I (insert any task here) +Reddit_” to get the information you want. The pattern that lots of folks use to find information about OpenSearch (unsurprisingly, as OpenSearch started as a fork of Elasticsearch) is to go to Google and search “_How do I (insert any task here) +Elasticsearch”_. That statement was met with a few nodding heads and light chuckling.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We started with the slightly tongue-in-cheek statement that the way you search Reddit is to go to Google and search "_How do I (insert any task here) +Reddit_" to get the information you want. The pattern that lots of folks use to find information about OpenSearch (unsurprisingly, as OpenSearch started as a fork of Elasticsearch) is to go to Google and search "_How do I (insert any task here) +Elasticsearch"_. That statement was met with a few nodding heads and light chuckling.  
```

OpenSearch actually does a pretty good job of the _Reference_ portion of the puzzle, especially considering that there are new releases every six weeks. I started contributing documentation late last year and recently joined the [_opensearch-project/documentation-website_](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website) repository as a Maintainer. I see a constant flow of both new docs and the improvement of existing docs. Considering the ratio of writers to developers and where the project was not too long ago, I think we’re doing a really good job of keeping up with both. 

The other three quadrants, however, is where we could do a better job. There is _Tutorial_  and _Explanation_ content mixed in with the _Reference_ content, but you can spend a lot of time wading through the minutiae of how things work when you are really looking for understanding of the core principles. We also have a huge amount of great content in the existing [blog](https://opensearch.org/blog/) that could flesh out these other areas of documentation, not to mention if we start linking out to third-party blogs. This is an area I plan to invest more energy into.

> Charlie then asked the audience what their thoughts were and we captured a lot of great insights. I then followed up with Heather Halter whose remarks are in *italics*. 

Reviewer 2: "questions and comments" rather than "insights" completes the logical flow from the intro into the Q&A.

**“Older versions of OpenSearch docs often show up in Google which is often jarring. Can we make sure Google is properly indexing the latest content?“**

> _While we’ve made a lot of progress in this area, particularly with implementing a redirect strategy, we are currently planning on adding canonical links to all the older pages. The goal is to get this work done by the end of Q2, which should show a big improvement in the back half of the year._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_While we've made a lot of progress in this area, particularly with implementing a redirect strategy, we are currently planning on adding canonical links to all the older pages. The goal is to get this work done by the end of Q2, which should show a big improvement in the back half of the year._
```

> **“I often find a GitHub issue that answers my question and I ⭐it.” Someone suggested that we look for comments on GitHub issues that have lots of stars and use that as input to where docs could be improved.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**"I often find a GitHub issue that answers my question and I ⭐ it." Someone suggested that we look for comments on GitHub issues that have lots of stars and use that as an indicator of where docs could be improved.**
```

 _Great suggestion!_

> **“My 2-yr old won’t let me work at night” was one response to the question of why people who find a gap in documentation don’t pursue opening a PR to improve the docs.** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**"My 2-year-old won't let me work at night" was one response to the question of why people who find a gap in documentation don't pursue opening a PR to improve the docs.** 
```

> _We love community contributions and have made it really easy to start. Check out the [CONTRIBUTING.md](http://contributing.md/) file and watch this [YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zmVC3fQwnVI) on our documentation process and how you can contribute. You can also search through the issues labeled "[good first issue"](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) or "[help wanted"](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22)._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_We love community contributions and have made it really easy to start. Check out the [CONTRIBUTING.md](http://contributing.md/) file and watch this [YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zmVC3fQwnVI) on our documentation process and how you can contribute. You can also search through the issues labeled [good first issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) or [help wanted](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22)._
```

> **Backwards compatibility in API’s came up as an issue. It would be interesting if we could better communicate API changes over time.** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Backwards compatibility in APIs came up as an issue. It would be interesting if we could better communicate API changes over time.** 
```

> _We use the "Introduced (version)" label to indicate the release in which a feature is introduced. But going backwards to identify everything is a big job. We received a suggestion to do this for field types, so I labeled it with “*[*_good first issue_*](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/issues/6993)*" in case someone wants to jump in._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_We use the "Introduced (version)" label to indicate the release in which a feature is introduced. But going backwards to identify everything is a big job. We received a suggestion to do this for field types, so I labeled it with "*[*_good first issue_*](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/issues/6993)*" in case someone wants to jump in._
```

> **Someone did make the comment that they did NOT believe that developers don’t like to write docs, especially in open source, but that we need to strive to continue to lower the barriers to contributing docs.** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Someone did make the comment that they do NOT believe that developers don't like to write docs, especially in open source, but that we need to strive to continue to lower the barriers to contributing docs.** 
```

_We are relying more and more on developers to write content and are looking at tools that make it easier and faster to write good documentation. We also have a great automated style checker built into our process that helps developers learn how to write better by correcting their mistakes._

> **One person asked what powered the site search, and the response that it is OpenSearch sparked a conversation about could we apply the new capabilities in OS like hybrid search and vectors to what powers the website. Kris Freedain spoke up with a “Who wants to collaborate on this?” and at least one person raised their hand ;-).**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**One person asked what powered the site search functionality, and the response that it is OpenSearch sparked a conversation about whether we could apply new OpenSearch capabilities, like hybrid search and vectors, to what powers the website. Kris Freedain spoke up with a "Who wants to collaborate on this?", and at least one person raised their hand ;-).**
```

> **One person asked what powered the site search, and the response that it is OpenSearch sparked a conversation about could we apply the new capabilities in OS like hybrid search and vectors to what powers the website. Kris Freedain spoke up with a “Who wants to collaborate on this?” and at least one person raised their hand ;-).**

Reviewer 2: Should we link Kris' name to his GitHub profile? It looks as though we link to his LinkedIn below, but is that the preferred method of getting in contact?

Reviewer 3: This is a great question. Since I do have a 'Community Member' profile on opensearch.org - it would make sense to link to it.  https://opensearch.org/community/members/kris-freedain.html 

It contains 4 links where the audience would be able to properly contact me. (LinkedIn, GitHub, X/Twitter, and Mastodon) 

I think this would be best for general guidance if this question comes up again. 
If the individual named in a future post does not have a Community Member profile, we could leave it up to them (linking to their LinkedIn, GitHub, X/Twitter, or Mastodon) - and possibly email.

_We are currently looking at how we can upgrade the search experience on the overall website. Please get in touch with [Kris Freedain](https://www.linkedin.com/in/krisfreedain/) if you are interested._

> _If you have more feedback on OpenSearch documentation, reach out on the [_forum_](https://forum.opensearch.org/c/feedback/6), [Slack](https://opensearch.slack.com/archives/C052GAV1MQF), or  [enter an issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/issues/new/choose) in the documentation-website repo. We also welcome you to contribute your thoughts on the recently published [OpenSearch Documentation Strategy](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/issues/7189)._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_If you have more feedback on OpenSearch documentation, reach out on the [forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/c/feedback/6), [Slack](https://opensearch.slack.com/archives/C052GAV1MQF), or [enter an issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/issues/new/choose) in the documentation-website repo. We also welcome you to contribute your thoughts on the recently published [OpenSearch Documentation Strategy](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/issues/7189)._
```

> _If you have more feedback on OpenSearch documentation, reach out on the [_forum_](https://forum.opensearch.org/c/feedback/6), [Slack](https://opensearch.slack.com/archives/C052GAV1MQF), or  [enter an issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/issues/new/choose) in the documentation-website repo. We also welcome you to contribute your thoughts on the recently published [OpenSearch Documentation Strategy](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/issues/7189)._

Reviewer 2: Should "documentation-website" be in code font?

> Thanks to the OpenSearch team for providing a great forum to connect with an incredible community. You can catch up on all the excitement in this [blog](https://opensearch.org/blog/OpenSearchCon-europe-2024-shines-in-berlin/), and I look forward to seeing everyone at [OpenSearchCon NA](https://opensearch.org/events/opensearchcon/2024/north-america/index.html)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thanks to the OpenSearch team for providing a great forum to connect with an incredible community. You can catch up on all the excitement in this [blog post](https://opensearch.org/blog/OpenSearchCon-europe-2024-shines-in-berlin/), and I look forward to seeing everyone at [OpenSearchCon North America](https://opensearch.org/events/opensearchcon/2024/north-america/index.html)!
```
